title: Problem 376
date: 2012/03/18 01:00:00
---
***
# [Problem 376](https://projecteuler.net/problem=376)
***
**Nontransitive sets of dice**

Consider the following set of dice with nonstandard pips:

Die A: 1 4 4 4 4 4
Die B: 2 2 2 5 5 5
Die C: 3 3 3 3 3 6

A game is played by two players picking a die in turn and rolling it. The player who rolls the highest value wins.

If the first player picks die A and the second player picks die B we get
P(second player wins) = <sup>7</sup>/<sub>12</sub> &gt; <sup>1</sup>/<sub>2</sub>

If the first player picks die B and the second player picks die C we get
P(second player wins) = <sup>7</sup>/<sub>12</sub> &gt; <sup>1</sup>/<sub>2</sub>

If the first player picks die C and the second player picks die A we get
P(second player wins) = <sup>25</sup>/<sub>36</sub> &gt; <sup>1</sup>/<sub>2</sub>

So whatever die the first player picks, the second player can pick another die and have a larger than 50% chance of winning.
A set of dice having this property is called a <b>nontransitive set of dice</b>.

We wish to investigate how many sets of nontransitive dice exist. We will assume the following conditions:
- There are three six-sided dice with each side having between 1 and N pips, inclusive.
- Dice with the same set of pips are equal, regardless of which side on the die the pips are located.
- The same pip value may appear on multiple dice; if both players roll the same value neither player wins.
- The sets of dice {A,B,C}, {B,C,A} and {C,A,B} are the same set.

For N = 7 we find there are 9780 such sets.
How many are there for N = 30 ?
***
## **Tập xúc xắc không bắc cầu**

Xúc xắc $A$, $B$, $C$: $A$ thắng $B$ nhiều hơn, $B$ thắng $C$ nhiều hơn, nhưng $C$ thắng $A$. Đây là tập không bắc cầu.

Đếm số cách gán số $1$-$6$ cho ba xúc xắc $6$ mặt để tạo bộ ba không bắc cầu.

***
