title: Problem 478
date: 2014/08/30 19:00:00
---
***
# [Problem 478](https://projecteuler.net/problem=478)
***
**Mixtures**

Let us consider **mixtures** of three substances: **A**, **B** and **C**. A mixture can be described by a ratio of the amounts of **A**, **B**, and **C** in it, i.e., (a&nbsp;:&nbsp;b&nbsp;:&nbsp;c). For example, a mixture described by the ratio (2&nbsp;:&nbsp;3&nbsp;:&nbsp;5) contains 20% **A**, 30% **B** and 50% **C**.

For the purposes of this problem, we cannot separate the individual components from a mixture. However, we can combine different amounts of different mixtures to form mixtures with new ratios.

For example, say we have three mixtures with ratios (3&nbsp;:&nbsp;0&nbsp;:&nbsp;2), (3&nbsp;:&nbsp;6&nbsp;:&nbsp;11) and (3&nbsp;:&nbsp;3&nbsp;:&nbsp;4). By mixing 10 units of the first, 20 units of the second and 30 units of the third, we get a new mixture with ratio (6&nbsp;:&nbsp;5&nbsp;:&nbsp;9), since:

(10·<sup>3</sup>/<sub>5</sub>&nbsp;+&nbsp;20·<sup>3</sup>/<sub>20</sub>&nbsp;+&nbsp;30·<sup>3</sup>/<sub>10</sub>&nbsp;:&nbsp;10·<sup>0</sup>/<sub>5</sub>&nbsp;+&nbsp;20·<sup>6</sup>/<sub>20</sub>&nbsp;+&nbsp;30·<sup>3</sup>/<sub>10</sub>&nbsp;:&nbsp;10·<sup>2</sup>/<sub>5</sub>&nbsp;+&nbsp;20·<sup>11</sup>/<sub>20</sub>&nbsp;+&nbsp;30·<sup>4</sup>/<sub>10</sub>) = (18&nbsp;:&nbsp;15&nbsp;:&nbsp;27) = (6&nbsp;:&nbsp;5&nbsp;:&nbsp;9)

However, with the same three mixtures, it is impossible to form the ratio (3&nbsp;:&nbsp;2&nbsp;:&nbsp;1), since the amount of **B** is always less than the amount of **C**.

Let n be a positive integer. Suppose that for every triple of integers (a, b, c) with 0 ≤ a, b, c ≤ n and gcd(a, b, c) = 1, we have a mixture with ratio (a&nbsp;:&nbsp;b&nbsp;:&nbsp;c). Let M(n) be the set of all such mixtures.

For example, M(2) contains the 19 mixtures with the following ratios:

{(0&nbsp;:&nbsp;0&nbsp;:&nbsp;1), (0&nbsp;:&nbsp;1&nbsp;:&nbsp;0), (0&nbsp;:&nbsp;1&nbsp;:&nbsp;1), (0&nbsp;:&nbsp;1&nbsp;:&nbsp;2), (0&nbsp;:&nbsp;2&nbsp;:&nbsp;1), 
(1&nbsp;:&nbsp;0&nbsp;:&nbsp;0), (1&nbsp;:&nbsp;0&nbsp;:&nbsp;1), (1&nbsp;:&nbsp;0&nbsp;:&nbsp;2), (1&nbsp;:&nbsp;1&nbsp;:&nbsp;0), (1&nbsp;:&nbsp;1&nbsp;:&nbsp;1), 
(1&nbsp;:&nbsp;1&nbsp;:&nbsp;2), (1&nbsp;:&nbsp;2&nbsp;:&nbsp;0), (1&nbsp;:&nbsp;2&nbsp;:&nbsp;1), (1&nbsp;:&nbsp;2&nbsp;:&nbsp;2), (2&nbsp;:&nbsp;0&nbsp;:&nbsp;1), 
(2&nbsp;:&nbsp;1&nbsp;:&nbsp;0), (2&nbsp;:&nbsp;1&nbsp;:&nbsp;1), (2&nbsp;:&nbsp;1&nbsp;:&nbsp;2), (2&nbsp;:&nbsp;2&nbsp;:&nbsp;1)}.

Let E(n) be the number of subsets of M(n) which can produce the mixture with ratio (1 : 1 : 1), i.e., the mixture with equal parts **A**, **B** and **C**. 
We can verify that E(1) = 103, E(2) = 520447, E(10)&nbsp;mod&nbsp;11<sup>8</sup> = 82608406 and E(500)&nbsp;mod&nbsp;11<sup>8</sup> = 13801403.
Find E(10&nbsp;000&nbsp;000)&nbsp;mod&nbsp;11<sup>8</sup>.
***
## **Hỗn hợp**

$f(n,t)$ là xác suất sau $t$ bước trộn ngẫu nhiên $n$ cốc (đổ vào cốc ngẫu nhiên). Tính $\sum_{n=1}^{40} \sum_{t=0}^{1000} f(n,t)$.

***
