title: Problem 623
date: 2018/03/25 10:00:00
mathjax: true
---
***
# [Problem 623](https://projecteuler.net/problem=623)
***
## **Lambda Count**

The <i>lambda-calculus</i> is a universal model of computation at the core of functional programming languages. It is based on <i>lambda-terms</i>, a minimal programming language featuring only function definitions, function calls and variables. Lambda-terms are built according to the following rules:
- Any variable $x$ (single letter, from some infinite alphabet) is a lambda-term.
- If $M$ and $N$ are lambda-terms, then $(MN)$ is a lambda-term, called the <i>application</i> of $M$ to $N$.
- If $x$ is a variable and $M$ is a term, then $(\lambda x.M)$ is a lambda-term, called an <i>abstraction</i>. An abstraction defines an anonymous function, taking $x$ as parameter and sending back $M$.

A lambda-term $T$ is said to be <i>closed</i> if for all variables $x$, all occurrences of $x$ within $T$ are contained within some abstraction $(\lambda x.M)$ in $T$. The smallest such abstraction is said to <i>bind</i> the occurrence of the variable $x$. In other words, a lambda-term is closed if all its variables are bound to parameters of enclosing functions definitions. For example, the term $(\lambda x.x)$ is closed, while the term $(\lambda x.(xy))$ is not because $y$ is not bound.

Also, we can rename variables as long as no binding abstraction changes. This means that $(\lambda x.x)$ and $(\lambda y.y)$ should be considered equivalent since we merely renamed a parameter. Two terms equivalent modulo such renaming are called <i>$\alpha$-equivalent</i>. Note that $(\lambda x.(\lambda y.(xy)))$ and $(\lambda x.(\lambda x.(xx)))$ are not $\alpha$-equivalent, since the abstraction binding the first variable was the outer one and becomes the inner one. However, $(\lambda x.(\lambda y.(xy)))$ and $(\lambda y.(\lambda x.(yx)))$ are $\alpha$-equivalent.

The following table regroups the lambda-terms that can be written with at most $15$ symbols, symbols being parenthesis, $\lambda$, dot and variables.

| | | | |
|---|---|---|---|
| $(\lambda x.x)$ | $(\lambda x.(x(xx)))$ | $(\lambda x.(\lambda y.(yx)))$ | $(\lambda x.((\lambda y.x)x))$ | 
| $(\lambda x.(x((xx)x)))$ | $(\lambda x.(xx))$ | $(\lambda x.((xx)x))$ | $(\lambda x.(\lambda y.(yy)))$ |
| $(\lambda x.((\lambda y.y)x))$ | $(\lambda x.((xx)(xx)))$ | $(\lambda x.(\lambda y.x))$ | $(\lambda x.(\lambda y.(xx)))$ |
| $(\lambda x.(x(\lambda y.x)))$ | $((\lambda x.x)(\lambda x.x))$ | $(\lambda x.((x(xx))x))$ | $(\lambda x.(\lambda y.y))$ |
| $(\lambda x.(\lambda y.(xy)))$ | $(\lambda x.(x(\lambda y.y)))$ | $(\lambda x.(x(x(xx))))$ | $(\lambda x.(((xx)x)x))$ |

Let $\Lambda(n)$ be the number of distinct closed lambda-terms that can be written using at most $n$ symbols, where terms that are $\alpha$-equivalent to one another should be counted only once. You are given that $\Lambda(6)=1$, $\Lambda(9)=2$, $\Lambda(15)=20$ and $\Lambda(35)=3166438$.

Find $\Lambda(2000)$. Give the answer modulo $1000000007$.
***
## **Đếm Lambda**

$\lambda(n)$ là hàm Liouville. $L(n) = \sum_{k=1}^{n} \lambda(k)$. Đếm $n \le 10^{15}$ với $L(n) = 0$.

***
